Adds Steps section and initial contributions (#40)
OctopusDeploy/Architecture: Steps/Index.md

# Index

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Key Constraints](#key-constraints)
- [Conceptual Model](#conceptual-model)
- [Composition and Coordination](#composition-and-coordination)
- [Inputs and Outputs](#inputs-and-outputs)
- [Step Packages](#step-packages)
- [Step UI Framework](#step-ui-framework)
- [Validation](#tba)
- [Bound Variables](#tba)
- [Versioning and Upgrading](#tba)
- [Infrastructure](#tba)
- [Build](#tba)
- [Packaging](#tba)

# Overview

At the start of 2021, the Steps Team was established within Octopus.

The initial responsibility of the team was to build _Concensus_ and _Clarity_ on how Steps should be developed going forward, to ensure we were confident the model and architecture would support Octopus over the next five years.

> This document summarises the initial discovery and decision making.

Reviewer: I think these documents should be evolving documents that reflect our current view of the world. This line makes me think this document is static. Perhaps something along the lines of:

```suggestion
This document presents the key architectural design decisions for our modular step infrastructure.
```

**Simple**

We should build steps that are simple and easy to maintain. As development of actions scales up, we may end up with hundreds of actions. Every small unnecessary development cost also scales up with the number of actions, so minimising these costs is critical.

# Conceptual Model

Octopus’ users get a lot of value out of steps that take the heavy lifting out of deployment. When Octopus codifies the knowledge on how to deploy to various targets and environments, users no longer are burdened with needing to acquire that knowledge themselves to deploy their software effectively.

We have no plans to invest further in “traditional” steps that target physical machines or environments that lack comprehensive CLI or templating tooling.

All foreseeable future targets will have CLI or templating tooling available, and this tooling provides all of the flexibility a customer could possibly want in configuring the target environment.

> Our ideal model will provide opinionated deployment tasks first and foremost. If users find their use case is not satisfied by the opinionated task, there will be a graduated path either to finer-grained deployment tasks they can compose their process of, or to script or template tasks that allow the customer to drive the CLI or templating tooling to accomplish their goals.

Reviewer: I think a concrete example might help to illuminate this point

Author: Added AWS Lambda as an example

We will ensure the path between opinionated tasks to flexible tasks has a great user experience, allowing users to transition between seamlessly.

Composite tasks (tasks represented as a set of finer-grained functions or tasks that can be reordered / recomposed) have been considered, but ultimately could never provide the flexibility users would be seeking. The development cost and additional UX complexity they would introduce, when weighed up with the marginal benefits we would get, give a clear indication that they are not a viable model.

**Tasks should be singular for consumers (users), be composable for developers, and provide a graduated path to success when additional flexibility is required.**

[Further Discussion](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fvB1FWEO9QBLqzAys6DmDryB4PlRYC5T0Pp2XbU8Vm8)

# Composition and Coordination

> In Octopus, a deployment process consists of a set of steps. The code that makes up steps expresses both behaviours and UI.

Reviewer: I think this section would read better if you could find a way to phrase it without saying the word "behaviour", which is a term that comes with its own baggage.

Perhaps you could talk about functionality?

```suggestion
In Octopus, a deployment process consists of a set of steps. The code that makes up steps expresses both the execution-time functionality and the UI.
```

These behaviours consist of:

> - Implicit behaviours that may be triggered, like package acquisition

Reviewer: I'm unclear about the distinct you are trying to draw between "implicit behaviours" and "shared behaviours". The way I think about these is that in both cases the "functionality" is something that is provided by Octopus Server, which the step opts-in to using.

Author: Fixed

- Shared behaviours that are configured via the UI, like package manipulation, powershell version setting, and deployment scripts (currently called "Features" in our UI)
- Handlers that do the work of the steps

> Implicit and Shared behaviours largely fall under the banner of "Package acquisition and manipulation". Behaviours outside of Package acquisition and manipulation will not be required in new steps. There is no evidence to support the need for Custom Deployment Scripts within new steps. Our proposed Conceptual Model will provide users the flexibility and control they require of new steps.

Reviewer: Similarly here, you could say 

```suggestion
The only shared functionality that is provided by Octopus Server is "Package acquisition and manipulation". No shared functionality outside of Package acquisition and manipulation will be required in new steps. There is no evidence to support the need for Custom Deployment Scripts within new steps. Our proposed Conceptual Model will provide users the flexibility and control they require of new steps.
```

## Solution: The Execution Manifest

The only "shared" functionality that needs to be composed with step functionality is package acquisition and manipulation. If we promote this to a first class feature set, we no longer need a generic way of plugging arbitrary units of functionality together.

We will develop UI elements that can be _Composed_ into steps for configuring package acquisition and manipulation.

Octopus Server will know how to interrogate that configuration, and will _Coordinate_ the appropriate functionality by building up an **Execution Manifest** for the step's execution, that it will send to Calamari to enact.

Problems we avoid by taking this approach:

- We remove the need for the declarative step manifest to attempt to describe what functions should be run prior to the step handler running.
- We remove the need for handlers to call other functions that may be written in another language (i.e. trying to call the variable substitution code, currently written in .NET, from a nodejs handler)

> - We avoid having to develop a number of implicit behaviours that would be required to support composing arbitrary functionality and its supporting UI.

Reviewer: Avoid the word behaviour here. I don't entirely understand this point.

Author: Fixed, I've tried to make it more clear.
